<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_f1f_kr3_rx">
 <title>Goals for this migration proposal domain</title>
 <shortdesc>This topic provides context for what is in this domain and how you can make use of it. </shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>The OASIS Darwin Information Architecture (hereafter DITA) is simultaneously highly disruptive
   and highly beneficial technology for organizations. Whether you have worked with DITA for many
   years or have just started working with it, the arguments in favor of migrating to DITA seem to
   us true believers to be logical, compelling, and self-evident. Shouldn't we just lay out the
   benefits to senior management in a few slides, order our "I love DITA" T-shirts, and get ready to
   cash those blsank checks? What could possibly go wrong?</p>
  <p>This project, sponsored by the OASIS DITA Adoption Technical Committee, seeks to provide you
   with a lot of ready-to-customize information about the many benefits of migrating to DITA
    <i>and</i> (importantly) some of the trade-offs and risks that also  need to be put on the
   table. The strongest migration proposal for DITA is one that is balanced, data-driven, and
   sensitive to the disruption that DITA will cause. </p>
  <p>Although this sounds a bit daunting, there is some really good news for you to consider up
   front. </p>
  <ul id="ul_apd_ky3_rx">
   <li>
    <p><i>The DITA architecture is an open industry standard</i>: Most desktop authoring tools and
     all of the "complete solution" suites are based on proprietary file/content formats,
     proprietary authoring interfaces, proprietary processing, and (often) proprietary content
     management. If you have developed your content in one of these environments, you are quite
     probably locked into the whole package – content format, tools, everything. Building your
     content on an open industry standard is the key. Any authoring, processing, or content
     management tools that are compatible with the underlying standard should be interchangeable (in
     theory). When it comes to DITA-compliant authoring, processing, and content management tools,
     "proprietary" is not a dirty word. Being able to switch out tools without having to reimplement
     reformat the underlying content is a big deal. DITA being an open industry standard supported
     my open-source and commercial tools developers protects an organization's investment in the
     underlying content. </p>
   </li>
   <li>
    <p><i>Many organizations in many markets have experience with DITA</i>: DITA has been in the
     market as an OASIS standard for over ten years. The likelihood that your organization is facing
     unique or significantly different requirements is probably small. In the cumulative library of
     relevant case studies, whitepapers, conference presentations, webinars, and user group notes,
     you <i>will</i> find information that is directly relevant to your particular market and/or
     audience.    </p>
    <note type="tip">To identify other companies that have adopted DITA in your region or in your
     market, consider browsing the listing at <xref
      href="http://www.ditawriter.com/companies-using-dita/" format="html" scope="external"
      >Companies Using DITA</xref>. </note>
   </li>
   <li>
    <p><i>You are not alone</i>: With so many companies using DITA, there are abundant training,
     consulting, and community resources available to you as you begin your investigation. See
     Appendix X "DITA Resources."</p>
   </li>
   <li>
    <p><i>DITA sells itself</i>: In addition to this migration proposal domain, there are numerous
     sample domains of DITA source content. Without creating any new content, you can download some
     tools and sample sources in order to demonstrate how DITA works, how it behaves in an authoring
     tool, how processors generate multiple output types, and how its modular architecture supports
     agile content reuse. Some percentage of the people who are most skeptical about DITA have
     rarely or never touched it or seen it live.  </p>
   </li>
   <li>
    <p><i>DITA is for people too</i>: Yes, DITA can be a playground for XML nerds, but it is also
     something that has been deployed in real organizations with real people for a long time. The
     impact that DITA can have on writers, editors, managers, and architects is reasonably well
     known and documented in many contexts. Having a feel for those human costs (good, bad, and
     indifferent) is critical to your developing a well-rounded proposal. DITA certainly has its
     critics and detractors. Some of their arguments are, quite honestly, valid and some are
     specious. You should assume that the people on your team and elsewhere in your organization
     have heard the stories and will be more open to your argument if you, in turn, are open about
     the people stuff – roles, careers, recruiting, mentoring, productivity, resistance, change
     management, and so on. One of the two most common mistakes in selling a DITA migration involves
     a lack of investment in selling the people affected by the migration. Not all of them need to
     agree with you, but they are all stakeholders and need to be treated as such.   </p>
    <note type="tip">A good place to start your investigation about DITA roles would be the OASIS
     DITA Adoption whitepaper <xref
      href="https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/50770/DITA_Roles_Responsibilities_final.pdf"
      format="pdf" scope="external">Roles and Responsibilities of a DITA Adoption</xref>.  </note>
   </li>
   <li>
    <p/>
   </li>
   <li>
    <p/>
   </li>
  </ul>
 </conbody>
</concept>
