<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_jxw_hzn_xy">
  <title>Introduction</title>
  <body>
    <p>One of the mantras in the Republic of DITA is that "DITA is both highly beneficial and highly
      disruptive." </p>
    <p>Organizations considering a migration to OASIS DITA tend to focus on the former – the many
      technical benefits that DITA can bring to a group of content developers interested in reuse,
      consistency, style/content separation, and content management. The technical merits of DITA
      are reasonably well documented and exemplified, especially for enterprise-class organizations.
      Equipped with a few books and a decent DITA editor, teams can produce some technically
      compelling demo implementations of unstructured content converted to DITA, replete with reuse,
      metadata, topic authoring, multi-channel publishing, and so forth. Less visible to
      organizations considering DITA migration are its "highly disruptive" aspects – content
      upheaval, role redefinition, staff attrition, sacred cow burgers, and politics. The long-term
      costs of ignoring the non-technical, disruptive aspects of DITA migration when building a
      proposal for migration can be damaging if not fatal. </p>
    <p>Approaching a DITA migration with eyes wide open is necessary. DITA is an XML technology and
      a loosely identifiable set of best practices. There are no guarantees that it maps neatly into
      your organization, your management priorities, or your team culture. Reading a stack of DITA
      books and attending a bevvy of DITA webinars can be informative, but they are no substitute
      for learning from the experiences of other who have succeeded and failed in their DITA
      migrations. People involved with failed DITA migrations can tell you – in hindsight – that all
      the signs were present at the beginning of the migration that it was doomed organizationally
      or politically. Experience. </p>
    <p>This <cite><keyword keyref="k_kw_migrate_guide-title"/></cite> provides a framework within
      which the OASIS DITA Adoption Technical Committee can capture the collective wisdom and
      experience of the DITA community regarding DITA migrations. Welcome to the conversation. </p>
    <p>This project, sponsored by the OASIS DITA Adoption Technical Committee, seeks to provide you
      with a lot of ready-to-reuse information about the many benefits of migrating to DITA
        <i>and</i> (importantly) some of the trade-offs and risks that also need to be put on the
      table. The strongest migration proposal for DITA is one that is balanced, data-driven, and
      sensitive to the disruption that DITA can cause. </p>
  </body>
</topic>
