<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_f1f_kr3_rx">
 <title>The Glass Half Full . . .</title>
 <conbody>
  <p>Most DITA migration proposals seek funding or approval from senior management on the basis of
   the technical benefits offered by DITA. These benefits can be quite attarctive to organizations
   seeking any of the following:</p>
  <ul id="ul_e1n_51q_rx">
   <li>
    <p><i>Industry-standard markup and metadata</i>: Most desktop authoring tools and all of the
     "complete solution" suites are based on proprietary file/content formats, proprietary authoring
     interfaces, proprietary processing, and (often) proprietary content management. If you have
     developed your content in one of these environments, you are quite probably locked into the
     whole package – content format, tools, everything. </p>
    <p>Building your content on an open industry standard like DocBook or DITA is key to avoiding
     technology or vendor lock-in. Any authoring, processing, or content management tools that are
     compatible with the underlying standard should be interchangeable (in theory). When it comes to
     DITA-compliant authoring, processing, and content management tools, "proprietary" is not a
     dirty word. Being able to switch out tools without having to reimplement reformat the
     underlying content is a big deal. DITA being an open industry standard supported my open-source
     and commercial tools developers protects an organization's investment in the underlying
     content. </p>
   </li>
   <li>
    <p><i>Community development and support</i>: DITA has been in the market as an OASIS standard
     for over ten years. It has been successfully implemented in many markets. The likelihood that
     your organization is facing unique or significantly different requirements is probably small.
     In the cumulative library of relevant case studies, whitepapers, conference presentations,
     webinars, and user group notes, you <i>will</i> find information that is directly relevant to
     your particular market and/or audience. With so many companies using DITA, there are abundant
     training, consulting, and community resources available to you as you begin your investigation.
     Goodness.</p>
    <note type="tip">To identify other companies that have adopted DITA in your region or in your
     market, consider browsing the listing at <xref
      href="http://www.ditawriter.com/companies-using-dita/" format="html" scope="external"
      >Companies Using DITA</xref>. </note>
   </li>
   <li>
    <p><i>DITA sells itself</i>: In addition to this migration proposal domain, there are numerous
     sample domains of DITA source content. Without creating any new content, you can download some
     tools and sample sources in order to demonstrate how DITA works, how it behaves in an authoring
     tool, how processors generate multiple output types, and how its modular architecture supports
     agile content reuse. Some percentage of the people who are most skeptical about DITA have not
     used it or seen it in action. </p>
   </li>
   <li>
    <p><i>DITA is for people too</i>: Yes, DITA can be a playground for XML nerds, but it is also
     something that has been deployed in real organizations with real people for a long time. The
     impact that DITA can have on writers, editors, managers, and architects is reasonably well
     known and documented in many contexts. Having a feel for those human costs (good, bad, and
     indifferent) is critical to your developing a well-rounded proposal. DITA certainly has its
     critics and detractors. Some of their arguments are, quite honestly, valid and some are
     specious. You should assume that the people on your team and elsewhere in your organization
     have heard the stories and will be more open to your argument if you, in turn, are open about
     the people stuff – roles, careers, recruiting, mentoring, productivity, resistance, change
     management, and so on. One of the two most common mistakes in selling a DITA migration involves
     a lack of investment in selling the people affected by the migration. Not all of them need to
     agree with you, but they are all stakeholders. </p>
    <note type="tip">A good place to start your investigation about DITA roles would be the OASIS
     DITA Adoption whitepaper <xref
      href="https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/50770/DITA_Roles_Responsibilities_final.pdf"
      format="pdf" scope="external">Roles and Responsibilities of a DITA Adoption</xref>. </note>
   </li>
   <li>
    <p>Content reuse</p>
   </li>
   <li>
    <p>Lower translation costs</p>
   </li>
   <li>
    <p>Long-term writer productivity gains – do more with the same or fewer people </p>
   </li>
   <li>
    <p>Content management and sharing</p>
   </li>
   <li>
    <p>Output consistency across product lines and development sites</p>
   </li>
   <li>
    <p>Integration with corporate publishing portals</p>
   </li>
   <li>
    <p>Integration with other engineering infrastructure </p>
   </li>
  </ul>
  <p>Although this sounds a bit daunting, there is plenty of good news for you to consider up front. </p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
