<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_basic-concepts_liear-modular-environments">
 <title>About Linear and Modular Authoring Environments</title>

 <conbody>
        <section id="section_l52_s5n_xy">
            <p class="- topic/p ">For a variety of reasons, the technical publishing industry does
                not have crisp, generally accepted set of definitions for linear and modular
                authoring environments. That said, the following definitions will suffice. </p>
        </section>
     <section>
         <title>Linear authoring environments </title>
            <p class="- topic/p ">Linear authoring environments consist of markup languages,
                authoring tools, and processors optimized for the development of publications
                designed to be read progressively (chapter-to-chapter, page-to-page,
                section-to-section). Distinguishing features include the following.</p>
            <ul id="ul_cy4_3g2_ly" class="- topic/ul ">
                <li class="- topic/li ">
                    <p class="- topic/p ">Sophisticated stylesheet and layout logic.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="- topic/li ">
                    <p class="- topic/p ">Sophisticated book-oriented assembly logic, e.g. prelims,
                        part separators, chapter separators, et al..</p>
                </li>
                <li class="- topic/li ">
                    <p class="- topic/p ">Style-driven, hierarchical organization, e.g. dedicated
                        elements/styes for each heading level. </p>
                </li>
            </ul>
            <p class="- topic/p ">Some of the premier linear authoring environments for the
                technical publishing market include unstructured Framemaker, MS Word, and OASIS
                DocBook 4.x. </p>
     </section>
     
     <section>
         <title>Modular authoring environments </title>
            <p class="- topic/p ">Modular authoring environments consist of markup languages,
                authoring tools, and processors optimized for the development of content
                repositories full of reusable information components. Publications built from these
                reusable components can be organized statically (with hardwired maps) or dynamically
                (with metadata-driven processors). Distinguishing features include the
                following.</p>
            <ul id="ul_hrj_3h2_ly" class="- topic/ul ">
                <li class="- topic/li ">
                    <p class="- topic/p ">Atomic units of authoring, e.g. topics, articles, or
                        modules. </p>
                </li>
                <li class="- topic/li ">
                    <p class="- topic/p ">Sophisticated logic for assembling these units, e.g. DITA
                        maps, Flare TOCs, DocBook books, etc..</p>
                </li>
                <li class="- topic/li ">
                    <p class="- topic/p ">Sophisticated logic for transcluding (reusing by
                        reference) content at any level – words, sections, topic, and maps. </p>
                </li>
                <li class="- topic/li ">
                    <p class="- topic/p ">Non-hierarchical organization, e.g. no level-specific
                        headings or sections embedded in the markup.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="- topic/li ">
                    <p class="- topic/p ">Separation of source content from delivered presentation.
                        The same set of modules and/or maps can generate multiple deliverables, each
                        with its distinct presentation format. </p>
                </li>
            </ul>
            <p class="- topic/p ">Some of the premier modular authoring environments for the
                technical publishing market include XML DITA, MadCap Flare, and OASIS DocBook 5.x. </p>
     </section>
     
     <section id="section_gcc_mj2_ly" class="- topic/section ">
            <p class="- topic/p ">There are no absolutes. If you apply best practices for modular writing to a linear
                authoring environment such as MS Word or unstructured Framemaker, you can produce
                some robust modular help systems. Similarly, authors in a modular environment can
                assemble and link modules into respectable linear manuals. That said, there is more
                logic and tooling in modular environments to produce linear documentation than there
                is logic and tooling in the linear environment to produce robust modular
                documentation. </p>
        </section>
 </conbody>

</concept>

